Updated starting LB node tutorial to fit template (#237)
status-im/ift-docs: docs/blockchain/quickstart-guide-for-the-logos-blockchain-node.md

---
title:
doc_type: procedure
product: blockchain
topics: blockchain
steps_layout: sectioned
authors: kashepavadan, davidrusu
owner: logos
doc_version: 1
slug: run-a-logos-blockchain-node-on-public-devnet-from-cli
---

# Run a Logos Blockchain node on the public devnet from the CLI

#### Start a node and verify runtime and consensus signals.

This procedure covers installing the Logos Blockchain node, connecting to the public devnet, and verifying it is running. The Logos Blockchain is the blockchain module of the Logos technology stack, providing a privacy-preserving and censorship-resistant framework for decentralized applications. This procedure is for node operators setting up a node for the first time.

There is currently no dynamic wallet key management. To add new keys you must manually edit `user_config.yaml` and restart the node. If the node is restarted while bootstrapping, it does not save sync progress and restarts from the beginning.

**Before you start**, ensure you have:

- Linux x86_64, or a Raspberry Pi 5 with [Raspberry Pi OS](https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/) installed
- glibc version 2.39 or later (Linux only)

> - At least 64 GB of storage — see the [minimum hardware requirements](https://www.notion.so/nomos-tech/Hardware-Requirements-1fd261aa09df81a4a52be19e90b60891)

Reviewer: I think it was mentioned in Discord that we should not use `notion` links
Maybe better to place this requirement in `logos-blockchain` repo?

Author: Actually this link is outdated, I'll remove it entirely

## Step 1: Install the node binary and ZK circuits

The node requires zero-knowledge circuit files for cryptographic operations. Download the node binary and circuits archive from the [Logos Blockchain Node releases page](https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/latest), then install both before running the node.

> [!NOTE]
>
> The wallet used here is the node's internal key store, not a general-purpose user wallet. It holds the staking keys that give your node the right to participate in the consensus lottery.

1. Download the latest node binary and circuits archive for your device's architecture.

    - The node filename begins with `logos-blockchain-node-`.
    - The circuits filename begins with `logos-blockchain-circuits-`.

    For example, to download release 0.1.2 on Linux x86_64 with `wget`:

    ```sh
    wget https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.2/logos-blockchain-circuits-v0.4.1-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
    wget https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.2/logos-blockchain-node-linux-x86_64-0.1.2.tar.gz
    ```

    On a Raspberry Pi (aarch64):

    ```sh

>     wget https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.2/logos-blockchain-circuits-v0.4.1-linux-aarch64.tar.gz

Reviewer: note: this link is dead

Reviewer: should be this https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.2/logos-blockchain-circuits-v0.4.2-linux-aarch64.tar.gz

---

> title:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title:  Run a Logos Blockchain node on the public testnet from the CLI
```

doc_type: procedure
product: blockchain
topics: blockchain
steps_layout: sectioned
authors: kashepavadan, davidrusu
owner: logos
doc_version: 1
slug: run-a-logos-blockchain-node-on-public-testnet-from-cli
---

# Run a Logos Blockchain node on the public testnet from the CLI

#### Start a node and verify runtime and consensus signals.

> This procedure covers installing the Logos Blockchain node, connecting to the public testnet, and verifying it is running. The Logos Blockchain is the blockchain module of the Logos technology stack, providing a privacy-preserving and censorship-resistant framework for decentralized applications. This procedure is for node operators setting up a node for the first time.

Reviewer 2: Let's use the user as the subject, for example, "In this tutorial, you can...". It focuses on what the reader does rather than what the article does. In most cases it's also safe to omit "In this tutorial/article/document"

There is currently no dynamic wallet key management. To add new keys you must manually edit `user_config.yaml` and restart the node. If the node is restarted while bootstrapping, it does not save sync progress and restarts from the beginning.

> **Before you start**, ensure you have:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you start, ensure you have:
```

    ```sh
    wget https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.3-rc.1/logos-blockchain-circuits-v0.4.2-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
    wget https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.2/logos-blockchain-node-linux-x86_64-0.1.2.tar.gz
    ```

    On a Raspberry Pi (aarch64):

    ```sh
    wget https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.2/logos-blockchain-circuits-v0.4.2-linux-aarch64.tar.gz
    wget https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain/releases/download/0.1.2/logos-blockchain-node-linux-aarch64-0.1.2.tar.gz
    ```

1. Extract the downloaded archives:

    ```sh
    tar -xf logos-blockchain-circuits-*.tar.gz
    tar -xf logos-blockchain-node-*.tar.gz
    ```

1. Move the extracted circuits folder to `~/.logos-blockchain-circuits`, the default location the node searches:

    ```sh
    mv logos-blockchain-circuits-*/ ~/.logos-blockchain-circuits
    ```

    - To store circuits elsewhere, move them to your preferred path and set `export LOGOS_BLOCKCHAIN_CIRCUITS=/path/to/your/circuits`.

## Step 2: Configure and start the node

> The init subcommand generates a user configuration - covering per-node settings such as keys, ports, and peer addresses - with fresh cryptographic keys and auto-detected public IP. 

Reviewer 2: Let's not use dashes. They interrupt reading flow and make sentences harder to parse.
```suggestion
The `init` subcommand generates a user configuration that includes per-node settings such as keys, ports, and peer addresses, along with fresh cryptographic keys and an auto-detected public IP.
```
